It's finally time to do
some actual SolidJS code.
We've been actually using
it this whole time, but
now I wanna go beyond
the language of reactivity and
get into the pieces where we actually
need to author applications.
And for that,
I'm gonna focus on three areas.
We're gonna focus on control flow,
which we've seen a bit of already,
things like the For component.
We're gonna look at a bit more at the
fundamentals around component authoring.
As you saw,
props are a little special in Solid, so
handling them is a little special as well.
And then we're just gonna look
at like all the DOM binding.
If you're familiar with JSX, some of
that will be pretty familiar but for
those who aren't, I think it will
serve as a good introduction.
And the way we're gonna do this is I'm
gonna talk a little bit about each of
these topics, show some quick
examples of what those API's are.
And then I'm actually gonna pull
up few of the exercises form
Solid JS's tutorial and
do some stuff in the playground and
just kind of try them out and
see how they work.
First, control flow.
As mentioned before, pretty much every UI
framework has some kind of mechanism to
describe control flow.
Part of being declarative is having
a syntax to describe conditionals and
loops, and
it's different in a lot of them.
Some use HTML attributes
to kind of indicate,
some use things mustache templates almost.
And for us we use components,
JavaScript expressions still work but
the components kinda let us package
up the optimizations in a nice way.
So I've already kind of
shown this example here, but
just kinda emphasize anything again,
while we support maps,
we care about optimizing because of
the fact that we do create real DOM nodes.
And we can compose them we
write our own components, but
Solid ships with a few of
these we've seen For,
but we ship with a few other
control flow components ourselves.
And they fall in kinda two categories.
We have the conditional control flows and
we have the loop ones.
And for the conditionals,
the most basic one is show,
which displays content
when the condition is met.
[LAUGH] Then we have switch,
which is kind of a if/else,
or select/case kind of
control flow that lets us do
kind of nested mutually exclusive options.
We have dynamic, which is how we swap
the specific component being rendered.
This is important because our
components don't rerun again,
so we can't just reassign a variable and
make that a new JSX element.
There has to be a special control flow for
it.
And then lastly, there's error boundary,
which we use to catch
any errors in the view and
then show a different fallback.
There's actually one more that we'll
address later in the workshop,
which is suspense, which I also consider
control flow one, but we'll get to that.
On the loop side, we have two, which you
might think, that's a little bit strange,
why is there two, well, by default,
we use the For components.
And the important thing with
the For component is it's keyed.
And what that means is when
the DOM elements are, sorry,
when the data is set to a DOM element,
changing that data,
rearranging that list means that
the same DOM elements come with it.
So if you have a list of elements and
a list of data,
you change the order, the order of
the DOM elements change as well.
And this happens automatically because
Solid uses reactivity to update which
means that everything is by reference,
you don't need to manually put keys in,
it just works.
However, sometimes it makes sense
especially when you have primitive data
like maybe a list of strings or something
that doesn't have kinda a static reference
that you don't actually have a key.
And in that case, we have index which
lets you essentially key by index which
is like what happens in other frameworks
if you don't include the key prop.
So I'm going to use this
moment to go over and
actually pull out the Solid JS's
tutorials for a minute.
We have these great
interactive tutorials and
we've talked about a lot of
the topics already in them.
But this is also a great kinda
smorgasbord, so to speak of different
APIs, it's not the full API
reference which we have under here,
but it gives you a good idea of
how to use these in applications.
So I strongly recommend looking into them,
but
I'm gonna go through
a couple of these examples,
kinda give my personal take on them, which
is hopefully, better than what's written.
I tried my best when I
wrote the docs originally,
but some of these examples
will kinda illustrate
essentially how these things work, right?
So I'm gonna start with show because
show is probably the most basic thing.
And pretend you had a system where
you have login and logout and
you just wanna switch between login and
logout, right?
And right now we're
showing both buttons but
it'd be nice if we could only show one and
to be fair,
if you want to, you can in Solid,
write something like this.
Use JavaScript and write a ternary
operator, and then if you're logged in,
show, sorry, I got it backwards, didn't I?
If you're logged in,
show the logout and vice versa, right?
So right now I, actually wait, no I did
have it right the first time, sorry.
Right now we're not logged in,
we press the login button and
now we get the log out button.
And Solid actually can
tell that these ternaries
are JavaScript syntax, so
we actually can optimize these.
But we also provide the show component and
the show component,
Essentially takes a condition, show when.
Logged in.
And then when we're logged in,
we show this one and
we've kind of got a convention for
fallbacks where.
We can go fallback equals this, and
we get the same behavior and
it's the reason why
we care about having this
kind of optimized show
is because getting back
to our infamous counter.
Picture if you had something that was
show if count is bigger than five.
Well, when count is smaller than five,
we wouldn't really care because
we wouldn't be showing anything.
But if count got bigger than five and
went six, seven, eight, nine,
you don't want to rerun that
expression over and over again.
You don't want to recreate the component
every time you go five, six, seven, eight.
So this is what Solid's show component does,
it makes sure that it's only
when it switches between the Boolean
states that we actually like,
the truthiness that we
actually do a new render.
And to be fair, our compiler automatically
does this with ternaries as well, but
I just wanted to kind of indicate why
this is an important consideration.
Show component actually doubles up.
Interestingly enough,
we can add a keyed prop to it.
And this lets it take
a function that passes in,
like in this case it doesn't
matter because it's a Boolean,
but if there was some kind of value,
let's pretend this was user.
Let's say if I get a user signal,
you could actually pass in
a user in here inside the JSX.
And what this would do is say, no,
we actually want it to be keyed so
that whenever the user changes,
we actually re-render this.
Because by default, show is only
going to render the main thing
the first time when it
goes from true to false.
And this is good usually because
inside you'll have other things
in here that say that read user and
it'll still update independently
like we've talked about before.
But sometimes you do wanna associate
the DOM element with the data and
it has this form.
You might be saying, okay,
well I'm just gonna use ternaries.
Go ahead, for simple expressions, you can.
What we found is that one of the really
interesting properties with control flow
components is that,
The way that the layout,
once you have more logic and
you start getting bigger blocks of code,
you're entering the JavaScript
less often with the components.
So you get a more layout-focused
look when you kinda layer everything
out this way instead of having as many
jumping in and out of JavaScript.
It's an interesting observation, you'll
have to test the mileage for yourself but
this is kind of part of
the thinking behind this.
And that's basically the show component.